adding mutable and side effect to docs (#1622)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/app-dev-context/side-effects.md

---
id: side-effects
title: Side Effects
description: Side Effects are a method of execution to produce nondeterministic code.
sidebar_label: Side Effects
tags:
  - guide-context
---

> A Side Effect is a method of execution to produce nondeterministic code, such as generating a UUID or a random number.

Reviewer: Not a method of execution. Doesn't produce code.

A decent piece from javadocs:

"Executes the provided function once, records its result into the workflow history. The recorded
   * result on history will be returned without executing the provided function during replay. This
   * guarantees the deterministic requirement for workflow as the exact same result will be returned
   * in replay."

> By implementing a Side Effect in your Workflow Execution, you can execute the provided function once and record its result into the Workflow Execution [Event History](/workflows/#event-history).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a Side Effect in your Workflow Execution, you can execute the provided function once and record its result into the Workflow Execution [Event History](/workflows/#event-history).
```

A Side Effect does not re-execute during a Replay. Instead, it returns the recorded result from the Workflow Execution Event History.

> Side Effects should not fail, because failure results in the Side Effect function executing more than once. If there’s a chance of failure, use an Activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Side Effects should not fail. An exception that is thrown from the Side Effect causes failure and retry of the current Workflow Task.

An Activity or a Local Activity may also be used instead of a Side effect, as its result is also persisted in Workflow Execution History.
```

:::note

> You shouldn’t modify the Workflow state inside a Side Effect. Instead, use the return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You shouldn’t modify the Workflow state inside a Side Effect function, because it is not reexecuted during Replay. Side Effect function should be... free of side-effects and only return a value.
```
